# DATA3888_KIDNEY20

## Background
Kidneys play an important role in filtering waste and maintaining body function. Kidney transplantation is a transformative procedure for patients with end-stage renal disease, improving quality of life and eliminating the need for lifelong dialysis. However, there are significant challenges associated with kidney transplantations, particularly graft rejection, where the immune system treats the transplanted kidney as a foreign particle, triggering a series of immune response against the graft that ultimately leads to graft failure or other complications like bleeding and infections (Dubey & Rasool, 2021). Hence, a deeper understanding and ability to determine rejection type is crucial for a successful transplant.

Renal transplant rejection can be classified into four main categories: hyperacute, acute, chronic, and mixed acute rejection. Acute rejection is further classified into antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) and T cell-mediated rejection (TCMR). ABMR occurs when the immune system produces antibodies against the donor’s antigens, damaging the transplanted kidney through complement-dependent pathways and other mechanisms, whereas TCMR occurs when the recipient’s immune system recognises the donor’s antigens as foreign by antigen-presenting cells through direct, semi-direct, or indirect pathways, activating T cells that infiltrates and damages the transplanted organ.

The study of the immune response mechanisms involved in rejection can benefit both medical professionals and transplant patients, where medical professionals can develop more effective treatments through advancements in this area of study, leading to personalised treatment plans that minimises risk of complications. This further understanding is crucial for improving long-term transplant outcomes and enhancing the overall quality of life for transplant patients.

## Aim
This project aims to investigate gene expression differences to identify specific genes associated with TCMR, ABMR, and stable outcomes from biopsy samples, and build a machine-learning classifier to predict transplant outcomes. Leveraging these insights, we developed a predictive model for disease progression in kidney transplant patients, designed to be deployed on an interactive platform, assisting junior clinical nephrologists in assessing graft survival and making informed treatment decisions, ultimately enhancing patient management and improving patient quality of life.